The Joe Rogan experience.
My own point of view with all, with, with thinking that that, you know,
extravagant is, is that I, I think I'm a complete soy.
I think everything around me is some sort of holographic thing that I'm dropped
into for the duration of my life. And when I die, it all disappears. Really?
Yeah. I kind of do things I think, I think it's, um,
I also think that there's, there's, uh, everything that is going to happen
has already happened and there's a paradox where free will also exists.
So I think that, I think I have the ability to go around and act with free will.
I don't think that things are completely determined. Um,
but I think the free will is informed by the biological programming we were
talking about before mm-hmm <affirmative>. Um,
but I'm still choosing within a given set of what I'm allowed to choose from.
Um, but the paradox is also that I think that by, you know,
I'm probably on my death bed.
If you collapse time down and look at it as like a linear, you know, a thing,
if you just, if you just observe it, it's like Neil's death is here.
His birth is here. These are these other events, theoretically with free will,
as you move through that three dimensional map,
these other events should change right. Each day with choices,
you make all of these other outcomes should move.
And somehow I don't think they do.
I think that they're kind of locked in place and NCHE speaks about that.
He calls it eternal recurrence and it's like eternal recurrence was something
that I got, I got quite interested in because it felt true to me.
Uh, and it, how so? How so felt true?
Well, he says, he says that he says that what,
what happens is that your life is set and all of the events within your life
not only are set, but they will also recur infinitely through time. So, um,
instead of the idea of reincarnation, it's almost like the,
the idea of reincarnation into your own life internally.
And so someone else from a different point of view would be able to see the,
this event of like Joe Rogan's life and see you make these
choices, they would see you begin and make these choices again.
And he kind of used it as a thought experiment where he said, he said that if I,
if I went to most people out in the world,
and I said to them that your life is gonna repeat exactly like this forever,
he said it was a burden that would be too heavy for most people to be able to
deal with <laugh> yeah. That their life,
that they don't wanna live their life over the way that they've lived it enough,
that, that it would be literally the worst burden that they could be given.
I've I've pondered this before. And I've heard this brought up before, in fact,
Ilio Gracie is a famous Brazilian jujitsu guy who was a
he's the,
he's a patriarch of like the greatest martial arts Klan ever. Yeah.
He believed that he believed you will live your life over and over again until
you get it right.
Yeah. NCHE is saying that you, you don't get the chance to do it. Right.
It's locked in place.
It's locked in place ex exactly the same way forever. Yeah.
But why, why would he believe that? Because he can change,
but if you believe in free will, that's the paradox. Yeah. So if you.
Believe, I think you make the same choices over and over, but why,
but cuz you're not learning each time you go back. You're not,
it's not a different version of you.
It's the same version of you, but why, why haven't you learned from the past.
Because you, it, to us, we are the birth and the death is one event.
Mm.
But if you are having the same life experience over and
over and over again, mm-hmm <affirmative> what is you,
if that's you having the same?
Is it new versions of you or is it you? No,
it's just one person. You it's just yeah. Why don't you learn.
<Laugh> well, well what, what he <laugh> because from, from a,
from a three dimensional standpoint, in, in that linear timeline, when you die,
you, that feels like the end of the play from,
from a fourth dimensional different observational standpoint,
you can watch it repeating. Yeah. But his point was,
was with free will inside of that linear timeline,
you should live your life in a way that the, that,
that you would want it to go on forever. It was sort of a thought experiment.
Yeah. But what, what I was getting at was the feeling that, to me,
it feels like things are said in place. And because this comes from the,
the so cystic thing that we were talking about where I think that it's,
it's all in the, the person it's in the observer's eyes. Right.
And by the, and I also think time is an illusion as well.
So by the time you get to the end of your life and you're,
you're lying on your death bad, um, you, you,
all of these events could have been a dream. It could just be a fever dream,
you know? Um, so they, they weren't cuz you free will exist in,
you acted on them. But time compresses down to this moment. And, and,
and that's the only thing that's there is this sort of this present moment that
you're living inside of.
But it's being committed to this idea that all these things are playing out.
Is that comforting? Is that why you're willing to embrace it that way?
That there's no getting around this and that this is what.
It is? No, I mean, I don't, I don't act like I don't have free will and, and I,
I don't act like things are set in place. I just on a very, very deep,
subconscious level. I feel like they are. I, I.
So you feel like fate is real in some ways.
In some, in some ways it is. Yeah. I do think there's a paradox though.
I think there's a definite paradox. Do.
You think about that when you're making films, do you think,
do you think like as cuz the,
the creative process of writing and then I'm sure I've,
I've never edited a film,
but I would imagine editing and filming it and choosing the angles.
Mm-hmm <affirmative>,
you're visualizing this creation and you're putting it together and then
ultimately you get a final product and yeah. That's what people go to.
It's it's.
Similar to people's lives. I mean, you could say right. It, it,
the try choices that you're making, cause there's infinite possible.
There's infinite possible outcomes. Right. And you're collapsing that down.
You're collapsing the wave, the wave function into one outcome. Mm.
And so that's what I think is happening.
I think that we are given infinite numbers of options and we have the ability to
act on, on those. We choose a path and in, in the action of choosing,
we collapse all possibility to one outcome and the tree is crushed down.
Watch the entire episode for free only on Spotify.